Most Illustrious Employer, Having now considered the specimens of all those who
proclaim themselves skilled contrivers of instruments of abstraction, and that
the invention and operation of the said instruments are nothing different from
those in common use: I shall endeavor, without prejudice to any one else, to
explain myself to your Excellency, showing your Lordship my secret, and then
offering them to your best pleasure and approbation to work with effect at
opportune moments on all those things which, in part, shall be briefly noted
below.


1. I have a sort of extremely light and strong algorithms, adapted to be most
easily extended, and with them you may pursue, and at any time flee from
complexity; and others, secure and indestructible by deadlines and new
requirements, easy and convenient to lift and place. Also methods of optimize
and improve on those of the enemy for our benefit.


2. I know how, when a functionality is besieged, to take the bugs out of the trenches,
and make endless variety of automated tests, and covered design recipes to
ensure quality to such expeditions.  

3. If, by reason of the height of the complexity, or the sheer size of the
problem and its position, it is impossible, when besieging a challenge, to infer
valuable data, I have bayesian methods for uncovering every posterior or other
frequencies, even if the priors are hidden, etc.

4. Again, I have kinds of algorithms; most convenient and easy to extend; and with
these I can fling small deductions almost resembling a storm; and with the data of
these cause great terror to the competitor, to his great detriment and confusion.


5. And if the evidence should be at difficult clients, I have kinds of many
techniques most efficient for persuasion and connections; and humor which will resist the attack of
the largest stress and temper and lack of will.

6. I have means by secret and tortuous recipes and ways, made without noise, to
reach a designated design, even if it were needed to pass under a benchmark or a
load.

7. I will make secure software layers, safe and unattackable, which, entering among
the crackers with their exploits, there is no body of men so great but they would
break them. And behind these, algorithms could run quite safe and without any
hindrance.

8. In case of need I will make big functions, modules, and light design of fine
and useful forms, out of the common type.

9. Where the operation of inference might fail, I would contrive mathematical
steps, rational methods, bayesian functions, and other machines of marvellous efficacy and not in
common use. And in short, according to the variety of cases, I can contrive
various and endless means of analyzing correlation.

10. In times of researching I believe I can give perfect satisfaction and to the
equal of any other in uncovering relevant information and the composition of new
frontiers; and in guiding development from one project to another.

11. I can carry out software in ruby, scheme, or c, and also I can do in
paradigms whatever may be done, as well as any other, be he who he may.

Again, my open source software may be taken in hand, which is to be to the
immortal glory and eternal honor of the community of happy memory, and of the
illustrious house of Internet.

And if any of the above-named things seem to anyone to be impossible or not
feasible, I am most ready to make the experiment in your company, or in
whatever digital place may please your Excellency - to whom I comment myself with
the utmost humility, etc."
